# Life-Expectancy-Rate
Logisitic Regression Project
Using the data from World Health Organization (WHO), we analyzed life expectancy rates compared to immunizations (Hepatitis B, Polio, Diphtheria), Body Mass Index (BMI), and adult mortality between 2000 to 2015 in the United States (U.S.), Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Cuba, Mexico, Nigeria, Norway, Spain, Thailand, Ukraine, and Japan. Life expectancy rates were categorized as either high (at least age 73.4) or low (below 73.4) according to the WHO. The United States of America was also used as the reference for countries in the SAS code. Our study used a logistic regression test (full and reduced) to interpret life expectancy because we are dealing with a combination of continuous variables (immunizations, BMI, and adult mortality) and categorical variables (country and status) as independent variables and life expectancy as a binary dependent variable (lower than age 73.4=0 or greater than or equal to age 73.4=1). Under logistic regression, we used a likelihood ratio, Wald, and score test to evaluate the association between life expectancy and country, country status, immunizations, BMI, and adult mortality. All p-value thresholds are measured at less than 0.05. A likelihood ratio comparing tests between the full and reduced models was used to identify confounding variables. A calibration curve was used to compare the linearity of the whole and reduced models. Lastly, an ROC curve was also used to measure the sensitivity and specificity of the reduced model.   
